---
layout: post
title:  "DAYCON"
date:   2020-07-16
excerpt: "Daycon_BC card credit usage prediction (by cities and domain)"
use_math: true
categories: NA
project: 0
---

# KNN (K-Nearest Neighbor)

### KNN's Characteristics

> - Machine Learning
> - Supervised Learning
> - Classification

### How KNN works

> KNN can be explained by it's own name the best. 
>
> K - nearest Neighbor means that, K amount of data will be concerned during decision making.
>
> By comparing **distance** between input data and each element of given train data, computer picks K amount of data from train data.
>
> Then it classifies input data, following majority voting rule based on picked K data set.
>
> In order to apply majority voting rule to K data set, given data must have their own label(supervised).

### Distance in KNN

> Distance is key point in classification with KNN.
>
> it will be much easier if there's only one method to measure distance.
>
> However, there are 3 ways to get distance from A to B
>
> - Manhattan Distance 
>
>   - Manhattan Distance considers both X and Y direction has it's own meaning. (like Chess)
>
>   - $$
>     D = \sum_{i=1}^{n} {|p_i - q_i|}
>     $$
>
>   - Manhattan Distance from A(1,1) to B(3,5) will be calculated as following
>
>     - $$
>       \begin{align*}
>       D &= |1-3| + |1-5|\\
>       &= 2 + 4 \\
>       &= 6
>       \end{align*}
>       $$
>
>       
>
> - Euclidean Distance
>
>   - Euclidean Distance considers shortcut from A to B.
>
>   - $$
>     D = \sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} {(p_i - q_i)^2}}
>     $$
>
>   -  Euclidean Distance from A(1,1) to B(3,5) will be calculated as following
>
>     - $$
>       \begin{align*}
>       Distance &= \sqrt{(1-3)^2 + (1-5)^2}\\
>       \\
>       &= \sqrt{(-2)^2 + (-4)^2}\\
>       \\
>       &= \sqrt{4+16} = \sqrt{20}\\
>       \\
>       &= 4.472135955
>       \end{align*}
>       $$
>
>       
>
>       
>       
>       
>
> - Minkowski Distance 
>
>   - Minkowski Distance magnifies bigger value by powering it.
>
>   - $$
>     D = \sqrt[m]{\sum_{i=1}^n(|p_i - q_i|)^m}
>     $$
>
>   -  Minkowski Distance from A(1,1) to B(3,5) will be calculated as following (m = 3)
>
>     - $$
>       \begin{align*}
>       Distance &= \sqrt[3]{(|1-3|)^3 + (|1-5|)^3}\\
>       \\
>       & = \sqrt[3]{(|-2|)^3 + (|-4|)^3}\\
>       \\
>       & = \sqrt[3]{2^3 + 4^3}\\
>       \\
>       & = \sqrt[3]{8 + 64}\\
>       \\
>       & = \sqrt[3]{72}\\
>       \\
>       & = 4.160167646103808
>       \end{align*}
>       $$
>
>   - As you can see above if m gets bigger, certain value which is larger(distance calculated by axis)  is magnified more then other value. When it comes to data, axis will represent a feature, which means by using Minkowski Distance we can magnify certain feature that has bigger difference  more then other in consideration. 
>
>   - According to the formula of Minkowski Distance, if m = 1 its Manhattan Distance, while if m = 2 its Euclidean Distance

### Curse of Dimensionality

> When it comes to data analysis number of dimension in KNN represents number of features in dataset. If we think of it naively, we might expect more feature will give more information in decision making, and it will lead prediction to have accuracy. However, if quantity of data is not enough, abundant features doesn't help prediction at all.
>
> Lets say that we have one data set that has 3 features and 20 data and we are going to split it in to two. A data set that has 2 features(dimensions), and B data set that has 3 features(both data set A and B has same data, but different features).  Space that can be created by A data set will be 2dimension that has axis X and Y, while B data set creates 3dimension what has axis X, Y and Z.
>
> Now, if we think of space A and B's axis X, Y, Z are from 0 to 10, space A will have 100 unit in space, while space B will have 1000 unit in space(each unit can contain only 1 data). If we fill such space with data we have(20), space B will have 980 empty units, while space A only has 80 empty units. 
>
> This means that in terms of nearest neighbor, data set B's distance for considering a data as a neighbor will be much larger then data set A, and it will make decision(choosing nearest neighbor) ambiguous.
>
> If dimensions get larger, empty space will become even larger.  So it's important to have as much as big sized data, compared to features, or we should downsize quantity of features if we can't collect quantity of data.

### Coding with Sklearn (Python)

- required module

```python
from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier
import pandas as pd
```

- data post processing

```python
iris_df = pd.DataFrame(iris['data'], columns = iris['feature_names'])
target = pd.DataFrame(iris['target'], columns = ['target'])
iris_df = pd.concat([iris_df, target], axis = 1)

trainX, testX, trainY, testY = train_test_split(\
					iris_df.iloc[:,0:3], iris_df.iloc[:,-1], test_size = 0.2)
```

- model building

```python
knn = KNeighborsClassifier(n_neighbors=5, p=2, metric='minkowski')
## p = m(in minkowski distance)
knn.fit(trainX, trainY)
```

- getting accuracy 

```python
predY = knn.predict(testX)
accuracy = (testY == predY).mean()
```

